Release v0.5.0 (#1118)
kinvolk/lokomotive: CHANGELOG.md

## v0.5.0 - 2020-10-23

> We're happy to announce the release of Lokomotive v0.5.0(Eurostar).

Reviewer: As suggested by @ipochi 
```suggestion
We're happy to announce the release of Lokomotive v0.5.0 (Eurostar).
```

This release packs new features, bug fixes, code optimizations, platform updates, security hardening, and much more.

### Changes in v0.5.0

#### Kubernetes updates

> - Update Kubernetes version to

Reviewer: I'm not a fan of this changelog format. It's difficult and confusing to read IMO.
```
- Update Kubernetes version to
```
This is an imperative sentence.

How about something like:
```suggestion
- Lokomotive now ships Kubernetes version `v1.19.3`
```

or
```suggestion
- Kubernetes version has been updated to `v1.19.3`
```

However, this might be something to discuss for the next releases.

  [`v1.19.3`](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.19.md#v1193)
  ([#1030](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1030)).

#### Platform updates

##### AKS

- Update Kubernetes version to `1.18.8`
  ([#1071](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1071)).

##### Baremetal

- Expose CNI MTU on the baremetal platform
  ([#977](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/977)).

#### New components

> - Add component `web-ui`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Component `web-ui`
```

Reviewer 2: It would be also nice to link to respective projects for Nebraska and Inspektor Gadget

  ([#981](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/981)),
  ([#1100](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1100)).

> - Add component `inspektor-gadget`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Component `inspektor-gadget`
```

  ([#1076](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1076)).

#### Component updates

> - Update Velero component for Packet [OpenEBS and restic plugin support]

Reviewer: Link here is broken.
![Selection_264](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16539896/96994327-da4a9f80-152c-11eb-9fa7-5bd52d336d97.png)

Author: It works for me. Anyone else has this problem?

Reviewer 2: works for me as well.

Author: That bracket is some for of comment

Reviewer: Why not `()` then?

  ([#881](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/881)).
- istio-operator: Update to 1.7.3
  ([#1086](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1086)).

> - Update grafana and other prometheus operator sub components

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- prometheus-operator: Update grafana, kube-state-metrics and node_exporter
```

  ([#963](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/963)).

#### Terraform updates

- Upgrade to Terraform 0.13
  ([#824](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/824)).

#### Features

> - Add encryption support to in-cluster pod traffic

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Encryption support to in-cluster pod traffic
```

  ([#911](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/911)).
- AWS, Packet, Baremetal: use Docker instead of rkt for host containers
  ([#946](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/946)).
- Change labels and taints format from string to structured
  ([#1042](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1042)).
- prometheus-operator: Add external_url
  ([#964](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/964)).

#### Docs

> - Add concept document for admission webhook

Reviewer 2: Add is redundant

> - Add concept document for admission webhook

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Concept document for admission webhook
```

  ([#943](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/943)).

> - Add a coding style guide

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Coding style guide
```

  ([#953](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/953)).
- Metallb: Clarify address_pools knob
  ([#996](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/996)).

> - Add how to guide on backing up and restoring rook-ceph volumes with Velero

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- How to guide on backing up and restoring rook-ceph volumes with Velero
```

  ([#1048](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1048)).

#### Bug fixes

- bootkube: feed output using local rather than local_file content
  ([#1021](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1021)).
- Fix Dex component pod reload on config change
  ([#1040](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1040)).
- components/metallb: Add missing autodiscovery labels
  ([#990](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/990)).

> - Gangway: add a serviceaccount

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Gangway: add a ServiceAccount
```

Or `service account`.

  ([#1104](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1104)).

> - Add check for multiple release in Namespace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Check for multiple releases in Namespace
```

> - Add check for multiple release in Namespace
>   ([#1093](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1093)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If there is more than one component installed in single namespace, `lokoctl` will now refuse to remove then namespace while running `lokoctl component --delete` with `--delete-namespace` flag ([#1093](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1093)).
```

- test/*: de-duplicate value timeout and retryInterval
  ([#1049](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1049)).
- packet: Read BGP peer address from metadata service
  ([#1010](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1010)).
- pkg/assets: cleanup exported API
  ([#936](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/936)).
- cobra upgrade to v1.1.1
  ([#1082](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1082)),
  ([#1091](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1091)).
- cli/cmd: cleanups part 2
  ([#1015](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1015)).
- Add github actions
  ([#1074](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1074)).
- Makefile: use latest Go when building in Docker
  ([#1083](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1083)).
- cli/cmd: cleanups part 3
  ([#1018](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1018)).
- Add new CI config for Packet based FLUO testing
  ([#1110](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1110)).

### Upgrading from v0.4.1

#### Configuration syntax changes

There have been some minor changes to the configurations of worker nodes, `labels` and `taints` format changed from `string` to `map(string)` for AWS and Packet platform.

> old:

Reviewer: I think old/new should be highlighed somehow. Either with bold or `#####` ?

```
labels = "testing=true"

taints = "nodeType=storage:NoSchedule"
```

new:

```
labels = {
  "testing" = "true"
}

taints = {
  "nodeType" = "storage:NoSchedule"
}
```

#### Cluster upgrade steps

Due to [Terraform](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/824) and [Kubernetes](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1030) upgrades to v0.13+ and v1.19.3 respectively, there are some additional steps that you need to follow. Go to your cluster's directory and follow these steps:

```

> 1. Upgrade to Terraform 0.13 binary locally. Follow https://www.terraform.io/upgrade-guides/0-13.html.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Upgrade local Terraform binary to version v0.13.X. You can follow the following guide to do that: https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli.
```

> 2. export PLATFORM="packet" && export ASSETS_DIR="assets" # export your platform name and assets directory name used in your platform configuration.

Reviewer: Why this is all in "````"? I suggest we use regular list and move shell commands into "```sh" blocks as content of the list item.

```suggestion
2. Export your platform name and assets directory name used in your platform configuration. It will be used in next steps.
  ```sh
  export PLATFORM="packet" && export ASSETS_DIR="assets"
  ```
```

> 3. rm $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/$PLATFORM/flatcar-linux/kubernetes/require.tf $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/$PLATFORM/flatcar-linux/kubernetes/workers/require.tf $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/dns/route53/require.tf 2> /dev/null # remove un-necessary files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Remove old asset files:
  ```sh
  rm -f $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/$PLATFORM/flatcar-linux/kubernetes/require.tf $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/$PLATFORM/flatcar-linux/kubernetes/workers/require.tf $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/dns/route53/require.tf
  ```
```

4. cd $ASSETS_DIR/terraform # go to terraform directory.

5. terraform state replace-provider -auto-approve registry.terraform.io/-/ct registry.terraform.io/poseidon/ct # replacing old providers.

6. terraform state replace-provider -auto-approve registry.terraform.io/-/template registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/template # replacing old providers.

> 7. kubectl delete rs kube-apiserver-tab tab # NOTE: delete old ReplicaSet kube-apiserver only for single node cluster.

Reviewer: What is tab tab? We should sort by age, select with label selector and remove the newest one.

![giphy (1)](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16539896/96995630-c869fc00-152e-11eb-86c4-97ccdde6a3b1.gif)

Reviewer: Maybe:
```sh
kubectl delete rs $(kubectl get rs -n kube-system -l k8s-app=kube-apiserver --no-headers=true  | sort -k5 -h
| head -n +2 | awk '{print $1}')
```

though we need to test this.

Author: Tested, works

> 8. kubectl label FelixConfiguration default app.kubernetes.io/managed-by=Helm && kubectl annotate FelixConfiguration default meta.helm.sh/release-name=calico && kubectl annotate FelixConfiguration default meta.helm.sh/release-namespace=kube-system

Reviewer: Please add line breaks with `&& \` here, so the commands are more readable. we also need `-n kube-system` here.

Author: `FelixConfiguration` is a cluster-wide resource no need to specify `-n` I think

Reviewer: True :+1: Good point.

```

> finally, run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, run:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
```

lokoctl cluster apply --skip-components -v
```

The update process typically takes about 10 minutes.

> After the update, running `lokoctl health` should result in an output similar to the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the update, running `lokoctl health` should result in an output similar to the following:
```

```
Node                     Ready    Reason          Message

lokomotive-controller-0  True     KubeletReady    kubelet is posting ready status
lokomotive-1-worker-0    True     KubeletReady    kubelet is posting ready status
lokomotive-1-worker-1    True     KubeletReady    kubelet is posting ready status
lokomotive-1-worker-2    True     KubeletReady    kubelet is posting ready status
Name      Status    Message              Error

etcd-0    True      {"health":"true"}
```

#### Cluster nodes component upgrade (optional)

- Manually upgrade etcd following the steps mentioned in the doc
  [here](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/blob/v0.5.0/docs/how-to-guides/upgrade-etcd.md).
- Manually upgrade the kubelet running on the nodes, by following the steps mentioned in the doc
  [here](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/blob/v0.5.0/docs/how-to-guides/upgrade-bootstrap-kubelet.md).

#### Upgrade other components

Other components are safe to upgrade by running the following command:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
```

## v0.5.0 - 2020-10-23

> We're happy to announce the release of Lokomotive v0.5.0 (Eurostar).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We're happy to announce the release of Lokomotive v0.5.0(Eurostar).
```

This release packs new features, bug fixes, code optimizations, platform updates, security hardening, and much more.

### Changes in v0.5.0

> #### Kubernetes Updates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Kubernetes updates
```

- Update Kubernetes version to
  [`v1.19.3`](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.19.md#v1193)
  ([#1030](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1030)).

#### Platform updates

##### AKS

- Update Kubernetes version to `1.18.8`
  ([#1071](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1071)).

##### Baremetal

- Expose CNI MTU on the baremetal platform
  ([#977](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/977))

> #### New Components

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### New components
```

> - Add component `headlamp`

Reviewer 2: Agree, In Lokomotive the component is referred as `web-ui`, but just a text that `Add component web-ui` doesn't get any meaning.

> - Add component `headlamp`

Author: Yes this should be web-ui

> - Add component `headlamp`

Author: I have added both links to the description. I think that should be enough

  ([#981](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/981)).
- Add component `inspektor-gadget`
  ([#1076](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1076)).

#### Component updates

> - Update Velero component for Packet [openebs and restic plugin support]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Update Velero component for Packet [OpenEBS and Restic plugin support]
```

  ([#881](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/881)).
- istio-operator: Update to 1.7.3
  ([#1086](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1086)).

> #### Terraform Updates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Terraform updates
```

- Upgrade to Terraform 0.13
  ([#824](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/824)).

#### Features

> - Add encryption to in-cluster pod traffic

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add encryption to in-cluster pod traffic.
```

and similar missing periods (.) elsewhere.

Author: @ipochi periods are added after links

  ([#911](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/911)).
- aws,packet,baremetal: Remove rkt
  ([#946](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/946)).
- labels taints format change
  ([#1042](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1042)).
- prometheus-operator: Add external_url
  ([#964](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/964)).

#### Docs

- Add document for admission webhook
  ([#943](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/943)).

> - docs/rook-ceph-storage: Use correct apply command

Reviewer 2: This shouldn't be part of the document.

  ([#1026](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1026)).

> - velero docs: Fix the formatting

Reviewer 2: This also shouldn't be part of the document.

  ([#1045](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1045)).

> - docs/KEYS: switch to personal GPG key

Reviewer 2: I'd rather remove it.

> - docs/KEYS: switch to personal GPG key

Author: removing this then

> - docs/KEYS: switch to personal GPG key

Reviewer: I wouldn't remove it. This is something we should inform users, that there is now release signing key around.

  ([#1047](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1047)).
- Add a coding style guide
  ([#953](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/953)).

> - KEYS: Add knrt10 gpg key fingerprint

Reviewer 2: no need to add this.

  ([#1069](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1069)).

> - docs/development: Add link to coding style guide

Reviewer 2: no need to add this.

  ([#1059](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1059)).
- docs/metallb: Clarify address_pools knob
  ([#996](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/996)).
- Add how to guide on backing up and restoring rook-ceph volumes with Velero
  ([#1048](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1048)).

> - docs: Fix headlamp attribute reference table

Reviewer 2: no need to add this.

  ([#1092](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1092)).

> - docs: openebs-operator link fix

Reviewer 2: no need to add this.

  ([#1101](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1101)).

> - docs/configuration-reference: remove "Example:"

Reviewer 2: no need to add this.

> - docs/configuration-reference: remove "Example:"

Reviewer 3: All the entries in the docs section should not have `docs` prefix before them. It is redundant.

  ([#1105](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1105)).

#### Bug fixes

- bootkube: feed output using local rather than local_file content
  ([#1021](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1021)).

> - Fix dex pod reload on config change

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fix Dex component pod reload on config change
```

  ([#1040](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1040)).

> - gangway: add a serviceaccount

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Gangway: add a serviceaccount
```

  ([#1104](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1104)).
- Add check for multiple release in Namespace
  ([#1093](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1093)).

#### Development

- fixed error capitalization
  ([#979](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/979)).
- pkg/terraform: unexport functions not used outside of package
  ([#984](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/984)).
- pkg/platform: fix imports order
  ([#983](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/983)).
- pkg/components: remove unused List() function
  ([#982](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/982)).

> - components/metallb: Add missing autodiscovery labels

Reviewer 3: This is a bug fix.

  ([#1029](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1029)).
- Fix scripts/find-updates.sh
  ([#1034](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1034)),
  ([#1068](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1068)),
  ([#1080](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1080)).
- pkg/terraform: improvements
  ([#1027](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1027)).
- cli/cmd: cleanups part 1
  ([#1013](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1013)).
- test/components/kubernetes: remove kubelet pod when testing node labels
  ([#1052](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1052)).
- remove usage of template_file
  ([#1046](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1046)).
- test/*: de-duplicate value timeout and retryInterval
  ([#1049](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1049)).
- packet: Read BGP peer address from metadata service
  ([#1010](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1010)).
- pkg/assets: cleanup exported API
  ([#936](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/936)).
- cobra upgrade to v1.1.1
  ([#1082](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1082)),
  ([#1091](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1091)).

> - Update grafana and other prometheus operator sub components

Reviewer 3: This falls under component updates.

  ([#963](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/963)).

> - e2e: Add test for prometheus-operator PVC

Reviewer 3: This change is not significant and can be ignored.

  ([#1087](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1087)).
- cli/cmd: cleanups part 2
  ([#1015](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1015)).
- Add github actions
  ([#1074](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1074)).
- Makefile: use latest Go when building in Docker
  ([#1083](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1083)).
- Rename Headlamp to Web UI and add OIDC support
  ([#1100](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1100)).
- cli/cmd: cleanups part 3

>   ([#1018](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1018)).

Reviewer 2: I'd trim this section down to essentials. Ones that matter when the reader reads this changelog.

### Upgrading from v0.4.1

#### Configuration syntax changes

There have been some minor changes to the configurations of worker nodes, `labels` and `taints` format changed from `string` to `map(string)` for aws and packet platform.

old:

```
labels = "testing=true"

taints = "nodeType=storage:NoSchedule"
```

new:

```
labels = {
  "testing" = "true"
}

taints = {
  "nodeType" = "storage:NoSchedule"
}
```

#### Cluster upgrade steps

> Due to Terraform and Kubernetes upgrades, there are some additional steps that you need to follow. Go to your cluster's directory and follow these steps:

Reviewer 3: we also need a specific version of terraform right? Like terraform 0.13.x ? This won't work for someone using older terraform, no?

Reviewer: 0.13.0 will also work, as we use `-json` for getting version now. But this reminds me that if one runs with Terraform 0.12, the error message is not great right now. I wonder if we should address that before the release.

> 1. Upgrade to terraform 0.13. Follow [this guide](https://www.terraform.io/upgrade-guides/0-13.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Upgrade to Terraform 0.13. Follow [this guide](https://www.terraform.io/upgrade-guides/0-13.html).
```

We could say get Terraform 0.13 binary locally, i think upgrade to Terraform 0.13 may be ambigious.

2. `export PLATFORM="packet"` # specify your platform.

> 3. `rm assets/terraform-modules/$PLATFORM/flatcar-linux/kubernetes/require.tf assets/terraform-modules/$PLATFORM/flatcar-linux/kubernetes/workers/require.tf assets/terraform-modules/dns/route53/require.tf`

Reviewer: User may have different assets directory than `assets`. Can we template?

4. `cd assets/terraform` # go to terraform directory.

5. `terraform state replace-provider registry.terraform.io/-/ct registry.terraform.io/poseidon/ct` then enter yes for confirmation.

6. `terraform state replace-provider registry.terraform.io/-/template registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/template` then enter yes for confirmation.

> 7. `kubectl delete rs kube-apiserver-tab tab` # NOTE: **delete Replica Set kube-apiserver only for single node cluster**.

Reviewer: I would remove all but the last one maybe? I think this should be more robust.

Author: > `I would remove all but the last one maybe`

I am sorry, but I don't quite understand what you mean by

Reviewer: We shouldn't remove all replicasets for kube-apiserver, but only the outdated one, to avoid descheduling the up-to-date one. This way, upgrade process should be safer and faster, as it won't rely on checkpointer.

Author: For a single node cluster, isn't only one `rs` running?

Reviewer: We run Single deployment, but it will concist of multiple replica sets while upgrading and with older versions.

Author: Aaah, got it what you meant

> 8. `kubectl delete FelixConfiguration default`

Reviewer: We should annotate this object, so then helm can pick it up nicely, instead of removing. This way we avoid firewall blip. @iaguis do you recall (or have it in shell history) what annotations are needed? 

I think we need:
```
kubectl -n kube-system label FelixConfiguration default app.kubernetes.io/managed-by=Helm
kubectl -n kube-system annotate FelixConfiguration default meta.helm.sh/release-name=calico
kubectl -n kube-system annotate FelixConfiguration default meta.helm.sh/release-namespace=kube-system
```

Author: Let me try this

Author: This worked, updating docs.

> 8. `kubectl delete FelixConfiguration default`

Reviewer 2: Numbering of steps isn't in line what the `Cluster upgrades` section in previous releases.

When rendered, doesn't look nice.

1. Upgrade local Terraform binary to version v0.13.X. You can follow the [following guide](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli.) to do that.

2. Export your platform name and assets directory name used in your platform configuration. It will be used in next steps:
  ```sh
  export PLATFORM="packet" && export ASSETS_DIR="assets"
  ``` 

3. Remove old asset files:
  ```sh
  rm $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/$PLATFORM/flatcar-linux/kubernetes/require.tf \
  $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/$PLATFORM/flatcar-linux/kubernetes/workers/require.tf \
  $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/dns/route53/require.tf 2> /dev/null
  ```

4. Go to terraform directory:
  ```sh
  cd $ASSETS_DIR/terraform
  ```

5. Replace old providers:
  ```sh
  terraform state replace-provider -auto-approve registry.terraform.io/-/ct registry.terraform.io/poseidon/ct && \
  terraform state replace-provider -auto-approve registry.terraform.io/-/template registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/template
  ```

6. **NOTE:** delete old ReplicaSet `kube-apiserver` only for single node cluster.
  ```sh

>   kubectl delete rs $(kubectl get rs -n kube-system -l k8s-app=kube-apiserver --no-headers=true  | sort -k5 -h | head -n +2 | awk '{print $1}')

Reviewer 4: Sounds like we haven't actually executed the commands in these steps... I think we really should verify things work when copy-pasting the commands exactly as written.

>   kubectl delete rs $(kubectl get rs -n kube-system -l k8s-app=kube-apiserver --no-headers=true  | sort -k5 -h | head -n +2 | awk '{print $1}')

Author: Nice catch, when I tested it I was in `kube-system` namespace so it worked at that time.

  ```

7. FelixConfiguration to be managed by Helm:
  ```sh

>   kubectl label FelixConfiguration default app.kubernetes.io/managed-by=Helm && \

Author: @iaguis if you have run it more then one time it will throw an error. It works fine for the first time, which should work I think. The error means it's already updated. It works fine, please check the screenshot

![Screenshot 2020-10-27 at 11 08 36 AM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24803604/97261512-fe67f280-1844-11eb-82c7-3a7d2db7cc85.png)

>   kubectl label FelixConfiguration default app.kubernetes.io/managed-by=Helm && \

Reviewer: ^ that. But `--overwrite=true` would not harm either I suppose to gain idempotence.

>   kubectl label FelixConfiguration default app.kubernetes.io/managed-by=Helm && \

Author: cool, updated

## v0.5.0 - 2020-10-23

We're happy to announce the release of Lokomotive v0.5.0 (Eurostar).

This release packs new features, bug fixes, code optimizations, platform updates, security hardening, and much more.

### Changes in v0.5.0

#### Kubernetes updates

> - Kubernetes version has been updated to `v1.19.3`

Reviewer: `v1.19.3` is duplicated.

Author: fixed

  ([#1100](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1100))
  from [headlamp](https://github.com/kinvolk/headlamp).
- Component `inspektor-gadget`
  ([#1076](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1076))
  from [inspektor-gadget](https://github.com/kinvolk/inspektor-gadget/).

#### Component updates

- Update Velero component for Packet [OpenEBS and restic plugin support]
  ([#881](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/881)).
- istio-operator: Update to 1.7.3
  ([#1086](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1086)).
- prometheus-operator: Update grafana, kube-state-metrics and node_exporter
  ([#963](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/963)).

#### Terraform updates

- Upgrade to Terraform 0.13
  ([#824](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/824)).

#### Features

- Encryption support to in-cluster pod traffic
  ([#911](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/911)).
- AWS, Packet, Baremetal: use Docker instead of rkt for host containers
  ([#946](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/946)).
- Change labels and taints format from string to structured
  ([#1042](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1042)).

> - prometheus-operator: Add external_url

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Prometheus-operator: Add external_url
```

Reviewer: `prometheus-operator` is the name of the component. I think it's OK.

  ([#964](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/964)).

#### Docs

- Concept document for admission webhook
  ([#943](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/943)).
- Coding style guide
  ([#953](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/953)).
- Metallb: Clarify address_pools knob
  ([#996](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/996)).
- How to guide on backing up and restoring rook-ceph volumes with Velero
  ([#1048](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1048)).

#### Bug fixes

- bootkube: feed output using local rather than local_file content
  ([#1021](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1021)).

> - Fix Dex component pod reload on config change

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Dex: fix pod reload on config change
```

Reviewer 2: Sorry about the double change here.

  ([#1040](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1040)).
- Metallb: Add missing autodiscovery labels
  ([#990](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/990)).
- Gangway: add a ServiceAccount
  ([#1104](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1104)).
- If there is more than one component installed in single namespace, `lokoctl` will now refuse to remove then namespace while running `lokoctl component --delete` with `--delete-namespace` flag ([#1093](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1093)).

#### Development

> - fixed error capitalization

Reviewer: Next line ends with `.`, so I assume this is a sentence, hence it should start with capital letter.
```suggestion
- Fixed error capitalization
```

This applies to all items in the changelog, not only this line.

- Add github actions
  ([#1074](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1074)).
- Makefile: use latest Go when building in Docker
  ([#1083](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1083)).
- cli/cmd: cleanups part 3
  ([#1018](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1018)).
- Add new CI config for Packet based FLUO testing
  ([#1110](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1110)).

### Upgrading from v0.4.1

#### Configuration syntax changes

There have been some minor changes to the configurations of worker nodes, `labels` and `taints` format changed from `string` to `map(string)` for AWS and Packet platform.

##### old:

```
labels = "testing=true"

taints = "nodeType=storage:NoSchedule"
```

##### new:

```
labels = {
  "testing" = "true"
}

taints = {
  "nodeType" = "storage:NoSchedule"
}
```

#### Cluster upgrade steps

Due to [Terraform](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/824) and [Kubernetes](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1030) upgrades to v0.13+ and v1.19.3 respectively, there are some additional steps that you need to follow. Go to your cluster's directory and follow these steps:

> 1. Upgrade local Terraform binary to version v0.13.X. You can follow the following guide to do that: https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Upgrade local `terraform` binary to version v0.13.X, by following the [Terraform upgrade guide](https://www.terraform.io/upgrade-guides/0-13.html).

Reviewer: As discussed off site, link suggested here is wrong.

Author: yes, fixed

Reviewer 2: @knrt10

2. Export your platform name and assets directory name used in your platform configuration. It will be used in next steps.
  ```sh
  export PLATFORM="packet" && export ASSETS_DIR="assets"
  ``` 

3. Remove old asset files:
  ```sh
  rm $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/$PLATFORM/flatcar-linux/kubernetes/require.tf \
  $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/$PLATFORM/flatcar-linux/kubernetes/workers/require.tf \
  $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/dns/route53/require.tf 2> /dev/null
  ```

4. Go to terraform directory:
  ```sh
  cd $ASSETS_DIR/terraform
  ```

5. Replace old providers:
  ```sh
  terraform state replace-provider -auto-approve registry.terraform.io/-/ct registry.terraform.io/poseidon/ct
  ```

6. Replace old providers:
  ```sh

>   terraform state replace-provider -auto-approve registry.terraform.io/-/template registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/template

Reviewer 2: Why isn't this step combined ?

>   ```

Reviewer: This can be aggregated into single item.

7. **NOTE:** delete old ReplicaSet `kube-apiserver` only for single node cluster.
  ```sh

>   kubectl delete rs $(kubectl get rs -n kube-system -l k8s-app=kube-apiserver --no-headers=true  | sort -k5 -h | head -n +2 | awk '{print $1}')

Reviewer: Has this been tested?

Author: Yes, it worked.

## v0.5.0 - 2020-10-23

We're happy to announce the release of Lokomotive v0.5.0 (Eurostar).

This release packs new features, bug fixes, code optimizations, platform updates, security hardening, and much more.

### Changes in v0.5.0

#### Kubernetes updates

> - Kubernetes version has been updated to

Reviewer 5: I'd avoid passive form:

```suggestion
- Update Kubernetes to
```

  [`v1.19.3`](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.19.md#v1193)
  ([#1030](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1030)).

#### Platform updates

##### AKS

> - Kubernetes version has been updated to `1.18.8`

Reviewer 5: I'd avoid passive form:

```suggestion
- Update Kubernetes to `1.18.8`
```

  ([#1071](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1071)).

##### Baremetal

- Expose CNI MTU on the baremetal platform
  ([#977](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/977)).

#### New components

- Component `web-ui`
  ([#981](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/981)),
  ([#1100](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1100))
  from [headlamp](https://github.com/kinvolk/headlamp).
- Component `inspektor-gadget`
  ([#1076](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1076))
  from [inspektor-gadget](https://github.com/kinvolk/inspektor-gadget/).

#### Component updates

- Update Velero component for Packet (OpenEBS and restic plugin support)
  ([#881](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/881)).
- istio-operator: Update to 1.7.3
  ([#1086](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1086)).
- prometheus-operator: Update grafana, kube-state-metrics and node_exporter
  ([#963](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/963)).
- cert-manager: Update to 1.0.3
  ([#1114](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1114)).

#### Terraform updates

- Upgrade to Terraform 0.13
  ([#824](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/824)).

#### Features

> - Encryption support to in-cluster pod traffic

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Support in-cluster pod traffic encryption
```

  ([#911](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/911)).
- AWS, Packet, Baremetal: use Docker instead of rkt for host containers
  ([#946](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/946)).
- Change labels and taints format from string to structured
  ([#1042](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1042)).
- prometheus-operator: Add external_url
  ([#964](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/964)).

#### Docs

> - Concept document for admission webhook

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- concepts: add document for admission webhook
```

Reviewer 4: LGTM, but we should keep the caps consistent (i.e. `Concepts:`) :slightly_smiling_face:

  ([#943](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/943)).
- Coding style guide
  ([#953](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/953)).

> - Metallb: Clarify address_pools knob

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- MetalLB: Clarify address_pools knob
```

  ([#996](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/996)).
- How to guide on backing up and restoring rook-ceph volumes with Velero
  ([#1048](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1048)).

#### Bug fixes

- bootkube: feed output using local rather than local_file content
  ([#1021](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1021)).
- Dex: fix pod reload on config change
  ([#1040](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1040)).

> - Metallb: Add missing autodiscovery labels

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- MetalLB: Add missing autodiscovery labels
```

  ([#990](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/990)).
- Gangway: add a ServiceAccount
  ([#1104](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1104)).
- If there is more than one component installed in single namespace, `lokoctl` will now refuse to remove then namespace while running `lokoctl component --delete` with `--delete-namespace` flag ([#1093](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1093)).

> #### Development

Reviewer 4: Personally I'm not sure it's useful to include information about implementation changes in the release notes unless they significantly affect the users (e.g. a noticeable change in performance, much better reliability etc.).

As a user who reads the release notes, I am interested mainly in the following:

- Things I will **get** by upgrading.
- Things I have to **worry about** when upgrading.

As a user I don't care too much about things I don't see when using the product (e.g. refactoring).

Additionally, my interpretation of "development-related changes" is "changes which are relevant to Lokomotive developers". Looking at past releases it seems that this was what we initially meant, but then we shifted to mentioning small under the hood fixes.

We may want to reconsider this section and maybe include only things like changes to testing, CI, development processes etc.

Reviewer: I agree with @johananl here. But I think we can consider that doing next release to avoid blocking this one further.

> - Fixed error capitalization

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Fix error capitalization
```

  ([#1052](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1052)).
- Remove usage of template_file
  ([#1046](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1046)).
- test/*: de-duplicate value timeout and retryInterval
  ([#1049](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1049)).
- Packet: Read BGP peer address from metadata service
  ([#1010](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1010)).
- pkg/assets: cleanup exported API
  ([#936](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/936)).
- Cobra upgrade to v1.1.1
  ([#1082](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1082)),
  ([#1091](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1091)).
- cli/cmd: cleanups part 2
  ([#1015](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1015)).
- Add github actions
  ([#1074](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1074)).
- Makefile: use latest Go when building in Docker
  ([#1083](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1083)).
- cli/cmd: cleanups part 3
  ([#1018](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1018)).
- Add new CI config for Packet based FLUO testing
  ([#1110](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1110)).

### Upgrading from v0.4.1

#### Configuration syntax changes

> There have been some minor changes to the configurations of worker nodes, `labels` and `taints` format changed from `string` to `map(string)` for AWS and Packet platform.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
There have been some minor changes to the configurations of worker nodes. The data type of `labels` and `taints` has been changed from `string` to `map(string)` for the AWS and Packet platforms.
```

> ##### old:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
##### Old:
```

```
labels = "testing=true"

taints = "nodeType=storage:NoSchedule"
```

> ##### new:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
##### New:
```

```
labels = {
  "testing" = "true"
}

taints = {
  "nodeType" = "storage:NoSchedule"
}
```

#### Cluster upgrade steps

> Due to [Terraform](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/824) and [Kubernetes](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1030) upgrades to v0.13+ and v1.19.3 respectively, there are some additional steps that you need to follow. Go to your cluster's directory and follow these steps:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Due to [Terraform](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/824) and [Kubernetes](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1030) upgrades to v0.13+ and v1.19.3 respectively, some manual steps need to be performed when upgrading. In your cluster configuration directory, follow these steps:
```

> 1. Upgrade local Terraform binary to version v0.13.X. You can follow the [following guide](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli.) to do that.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Upgrade local Terraform binary to version v0.13.X. You can follow [this guide](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli.) to do that.
```

The guide isn't following :slightly_smiling_face:
Plus "follow the following" sounds strange to me.

> Due to [Terraform](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/824) and [Kubernetes](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1030) upgrades to v0.13+ and v1.19.3 respectively, there are some additional steps that you need to follow. Go to your cluster's directory and follow these steps:
> 
> 
> 1. Upgrade local Terraform binary to version v0.13.X. You can follow the [following guide](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli.) to do that.
> 
> 2. Export your platform name and assets directory name used in your platform configuration. It will be used in next steps:
>   ```sh
>   export PLATFORM="packet" && export ASSETS_DIR="assets"
>   ``` 
> 
> 3. Remove old asset files:

Reviewer 5: Reduce repetition a bit.

```suggestion
Due to [Terraform](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/824) and [Kubernetes](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1030) upgrades to v0.13+ and v1.19.3 respectively, there are some additional upgrade steps needed.

1. Upgrade local Terraform binary to version v0.13.X. You can follow the [following guide](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli.) to do that.

2. Starting from your cluster directory, export your platform name and assets directory name used in your platform configuration. It will be used in next steps:
  ```sh
  export PLATFORM="packet" && export ASSETS_DIR="assets"
  ``` 

3. Remove old asset files:
```

Reviewer 4: Nit: There is an extra blank line after "steps needed" in the diff. Might be a markdown rendering bug.

  ```sh

>   rm $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/$PLATFORM/flatcar-linux/kubernetes/require.tf \

Reviewer 4: Is there a point in backing up the current state of the assets dir before deleting stuff?

Author: There is no problem in deleting this, as this is old file created by terraform v.12 and now it's shifted to `versions.tf`

  $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/$PLATFORM/flatcar-linux/kubernetes/workers/require.tf \
  $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/dns/route53/require.tf 2> /dev/null
  ```

> 4. Go to terraform directory:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. Go to the `terraform` directory:
```

  ```sh
  cd $ASSETS_DIR/terraform
  ```

> 5. Replace old providers:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
5. Replace the old providers:
```

  ```sh
  terraform state replace-provider -auto-approve registry.terraform.io/-/ct registry.terraform.io/poseidon/ct && \
  terraform state replace-provider -auto-approve registry.terraform.io/-/template registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/template
  ```

> 6. **NOTE:** delete old ReplicaSet `kube-apiserver` only for single node cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
6. **NOTE:** On clusters with a single controller node only, delete the old `kube-apiserver` ReplicaSet:
```

I'm **assuming** "node" means "controller node".

Author: Yes

  ```sh
  kubectl delete rs $(kubectl get rs -n kube-system -l k8s-app=kube-apiserver --no-headers=true  | sort -k5 -h | head -n +2 | awk '{print $1}')
  ```

> 7. FelixConfiguration to be managed by Helm:

Reviewer 4: Can we rephrase this as an imperative instruction like the previous steps? As a user, what do I have to do?

  ```sh
  kubectl label FelixConfiguration default app.kubernetes.io/managed-by=Helm && \
  kubectl annotate FelixConfiguration default meta.helm.sh/release-name=calico && \
  kubectl annotate FelixConfiguration default meta.helm.sh/release-namespace=kube-system
  ```

> Finally, run:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Finally, run the following:
```

```sh
lokoctl cluster apply --skip-components -v
```

> The update process typically takes about 10 minutes.

Reviewer 4: Let's use either "update" or "upgrade" consistently when referring to moving from `v0.4.1` to `v0.5.0`.

After the update, running `lokoctl health` should result in an output similar to the following:

```sh
Node                     Ready    Reason          Message

lokomotive-controller-0  True     KubeletReady    kubelet is posting ready status
lokomotive-1-worker-0    True     KubeletReady    kubelet is posting ready status
lokomotive-1-worker-1    True     KubeletReady    kubelet is posting ready status
lokomotive-1-worker-2    True     KubeletReady    kubelet is posting ready status
Name      Status    Message              Error

etcd-0    True      {"health":"true"}
```

> #### Cluster nodes component upgrade (optional)

Reviewer 4: - How about "Upgrading native kubelets and etcd"? I find "cluster nodes component" very ambiguous.
- What does "optional" mean? As a user, how do I know whether I should do this?

- Manually upgrade etcd following the steps mentioned in the doc
  [here](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/blob/v0.5.0/docs/how-to-guides/upgrade-etcd.md).
- Manually upgrade the kubelet running on the nodes, by following the steps mentioned in the doc
  [here](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/blob/v0.5.0/docs/how-to-guides/upgrade-bootstrap-kubelet.md).

> #### cert-manager Upgrade steps

Reviewer 4: Why cap "Upgrade"?

> These steps are curated from the upgrade doc provided by [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/upgrading/upgrading-0.16-1.0/#kubernetes-1-16-and-above):

Reviewer 4: Nit: Do we mean "curated" as in "selected"? I'd consider a more common word (e.g. "taken", "copied").

> Apply manifest:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Apply the manifest:
```

Which manifest? As a user, why do I need to apply it?

  ```sh
  kubectl apply --validate=false -f https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.0.3/cert-manager.yaml
  ```

> Now it is safe to update:

Reviewer 4: This implies that without the steps above it's *not* safe to update. I'd include a short sentence in the beginning of this section explaining the reasoning behind it. Example:

"cert-manager v1.2.3 introduces a backward-incompatible feature which requires doing so and so manually to avoid this and that."

> ```

Reviewer 4: Is there a reason we sometimes use `sh` in code snippets and sometimes we don't?

Author: used `sh` consistently

lokoctl component apply cert-manager
```

> #### Upgrade other components

Reviewer 4: We have the following headings:

- Cluster nodes component upgrade
- cert-manager upgrade steps
- Upgrade other components

Can we choose one style and use it consistently? Example:

- Upgrading native kubelets and etcd
- Upgrading cert-manager
- Upgrading other components

Author: I have now consistently changed it to Update instead of Upgrade

> Other components are safe to upgrade by running the following command:

Reviewer 5: I tried to upgrade a cluster with Prometheus Operator and it got stuck, `kubectl get events` shows this:

```
98s         Warning   FailedCreate                   job/prometheus-operator-admission-create                                            Error creating: pods "prometheus-operator-admission-create-rtc87" is forbidden: PodSecurityPolicy: unable to validate pod: [pod.metadata.annotations[container.seccomp.security.alpha.kubernetes.io/create]: Forbidden: runtime/default is not an allowed seccomp profile. Valid values are docker/default spec.securityContext.fsGroup: Invalid value: []int64{0}: group 0 must be in the ranges: [{1 65535}] spec.securityContext.supplementalGroups: Invalid value: []int64{0}: group 0 must be in the ranges: [{1 65535}]]
```

I remember encountering this when I did an upgrade test on one of my clusters with @invidian. @invidian do you remember what the cause was and how we got past that?

Author: During offline discussion. We have to delete the `psp prometheus-operator-admission` as it does not apply annotation `runtime/default` while updating. Opened an issue for it https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/issues/1128

> Other components are safe to upgrade by running the following command:

Reviewer 5: We should also mention the change of defaults in `cluster.oidc.cluster_id`: https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1100#issuecomment-713053808

Author: Done

  ([#1049](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1049)).
- Packet: Read BGP peer address from metadata service
  ([#1010](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1010)).
- pkg/assets: cleanup exported API
  ([#936](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/936)).
- Cobra updated to v1.1.1
  ([#1082](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1082)),
  ([#1091](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1091)).
- cli/cmd: cleanups part 2
  ([#1015](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1015)).
- Add github actions
  ([#1074](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1074)).
- Makefile: use latest Go when building in Docker
  ([#1083](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1083)).
- cli/cmd: cleanups part 3
  ([#1018](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1018)).
- Add new CI config for Packet based FLUO testing
  ([#1110](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1110)).

### Updating from v0.4.1

#### Configuration syntax changes

There have been some minor changes to the configurations of worker nodes. The data type of `labels` and `taints` has been changed from `string` to `map(string)` for the AWS and Packet platforms.

##### Old:

> ```sh

Reviewer: Ditto HCL

labels = "testing=true"

taints = "nodeType=storage:NoSchedule"
```

##### New:

> ```sh

Reviewer: Ditto HCL

labels = {
  "testing" = "true"
}

taints = {
  "nodeType" = "storage:NoSchedule"
}
```

This release also changes the default `cluster.oidc.client_id` value from `gangway` to `clusterauth`. This setting must match `gangway.client_id` and `dex.static_client.id`. If you use default settings for oidc you'll need to add `client_id = "gangway"` or change the `static_client.id` and `client_id` parameters for dex and gangway to `clusterauth` respectively.

##### Old:

> ```sh

Reviewer: Ditto HCL

packet {
  oidc {
    client_id = "gangway"
  }
}
```

##### New:

> ```sh

Reviewer: This is not shell snippet, but HCL:
```suggestion
```hcl
```

packet {
  oidc {
    client_id = "clusterauth"
  }
}
```

#### Cluster update steps

Due to [Terraform](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/824) and [Kubernetes](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1030) updates to v0.13+ and v1.19.3 respectively, some manual steps need to be performed when updating. In your cluster configuration directory, follow these steps:

> 1. Update local Terraform binary to version v0.13.X. You can follow [this guide](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli.) to do that.

Reviewer: Before upgrading anything, I would say to ensure, that cluster is right now in a healthy state by running `lokoctl cluster apply` using `v0.4.1` version. Also, as we do not support version-jumping, I'd mention, that if your cluster is older, then upgrade to `v0.4.1` and only then proceed with upgrades to `v0.5.0`.

This will also make sure that the right `kubeconfig` file is in assets directory before the upgrades.

2. Starting from your cluster directory, export your platform name and assets directory name used in your platform configuration. It will be used in next steps:
  ```sh
  export PLATFORM="packet" && export ASSETS_DIR="assets"
  ```

3. Remove old asset files:
  ```sh

>   rm $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/$PLATFORM/flatcar-linux/kubernetes/require.tf \
>   $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/$PLATFORM/flatcar-linux/kubernetes/workers/require.tf \
>   $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/dns/route53/require.tf 2> /dev/null

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  rm -f $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/$PLATFORM/flatcar-linux/kubernetes/require.tf \
  $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/$PLATFORM/flatcar-linux/kubernetes/workers/require.tf \
  $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/dns/route53/require.tf
```

  ```

4. Go to the `terraform` directory:
  ```sh
  cd $ASSETS_DIR/terraform
  ```

5. Replace the old providers:
  ```sh
  terraform state replace-provider -auto-approve registry.terraform.io/-/ct registry.terraform.io/poseidon/ct && \
  terraform state replace-provider -auto-approve registry.terraform.io/-/template registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/template
  ```

6. **NOTE:** On clusters with a single controller node only, delete the old `kube-apiserver` ReplicaSet:
  ```sh

>   kubectl delete rs -n kube-system $(kubectl get rs -n kube-system -l k8s-app=kube-apiserver --no-headers=true  | sort -k5 -h | head -n +2 | awk '{print $1}')

Reviewer: This must be executed during cluster upgrade, so when `lokoctl cluster apply` writes that it's updating `kube-apiserver` system component.

Author: should it include it after apply or write the instruction here?

>   kubectl delete rs -n kube-system $(kubectl get rs -n kube-system -l k8s-app=kube-apiserver --no-headers=true  | sort -k5 -h | head -n +2 | awk '{print $1}')

Reviewer: I think the following command should be more robust.
```suggestion
  kubectl delete rs -n kube-system $(kubectl get rs -n kube-system -l k8s-app=kube-apiserver --no-headers=true --sort-by=metadata.creationTimestamp | tac | tail -n +2 | awk '{print $1}') || true
```

>   ```

Reviewer: Should we go back to original directory here, perhaps using `pushd/popd` and ensure that right kubeconfig is used for `kubectl` operations by running:
```sh
export KUBECONFIG=$ASSETS_DIR/cluster-assets/auth/kubeconfig
``` 
?

Author: Also we can just do `cd -`

```sh
lokoctl cluster apply --skip-components -v
```

The update process typically takes about 10 minutes.
After the update, running `lokoctl health` should result in an output similar to the following:

```sh
Node                     Ready    Reason          Message

lokomotive-controller-0  True     KubeletReady    kubelet is posting ready status
lokomotive-1-worker-0    True     KubeletReady    kubelet is posting ready status
lokomotive-1-worker-1    True     KubeletReady    kubelet is posting ready status
lokomotive-1-worker-2    True     KubeletReady    kubelet is posting ready status
Name      Status    Message              Error

etcd-0    True      {"health":"true"}
```

#### Updating native kubelets and etcd (optional)

- Manually update etcd following the steps mentioned in the doc
  [here](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/blob/v0.5.0/docs/how-to-guides/upgrade-etcd.md).
- Manually update the kubelet running on the nodes, by following the steps mentioned in the doc
  [here](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/blob/v0.5.0/docs/how-to-guides/upgrade-bootstrap-kubelet.md).

#### Updating cert-manager

Run the following command until it exits with code zero:

```sh

> lokoctl component render-manifest cert-manager | kubectl apply -f -

Reviewer: I tested this and it works fine.
```suggestion
until lokoctl component render-manifest cert-manager | kubectl apply -f -; do sleep 1; done
```

```

Now it is safe to update:

```sh
lokoctl component apply cert-manager
```

#### Updating prometheus-operator

Delete `psp prometheus-operator-admission` as it does not apply annotation `runtime/default` while updating:

```sh

> kubectl delete psp prometheus-operator-admission

Reviewer: I confirmed, that this solves the problem. The weird thing is that on `v0.4.1` cluster the PSP is there, but shouldn't as Helm hook should remove it.

- cli/cmd: cleanups part 3
  ([#1018](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1018)).
- Add new CI config for Packet based FLUO testing
  ([#1110](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1110)).

### Updating from v0.4.1

#### Configuration syntax changes

There have been some minor changes to the configurations of worker nodes. The data type of `labels` and `taints` has been changed from `string` to `map(string)` for the AWS and Packet platforms.

##### Old:

```hcl
labels = "testing=true"

taints = "nodeType=storage:NoSchedule"
```

##### New:

```hcl
labels = {
  "testing" = "true"
}

taints = {
  "nodeType" = "storage:NoSchedule"
}
```

This release also changes the default `cluster.oidc.client_id` value from `gangway` to `clusterauth`. This setting must match `gangway.client_id` and `dex.static_client.id`. If you use default settings for oidc you'll need to add `client_id = "gangway"` or change the `static_client.id` and `client_id` parameters for dex and gangway to `clusterauth` respectively.

##### Old:

```hcl
packet {
  oidc {
    client_id = "gangway"
  }
}
```

##### New:

```hcl
packet {
  oidc {
    client_id = "clusterauth"
  }
}
```

#### Cluster update steps

> Ensure, that your cluster is in a healthy state by running `lokoctl cluster apply` using `v0.4.1` version. As we currently do not support version-jumping, so if your cluster is older, then upgrade to `v0.4.1` and only then proceed with upgrades to `v0.5.0`.

Reviewer: Maybe we can also change `Version jumping` -> `Updating multiple versions at a time` ?

  $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/dns/route53/require.tf
  ```

4. Go to the `terraform` directory:
  ```sh
  cd $ASSETS_DIR/terraform
  ```

5. Replace the old providers:
  ```sh
  terraform state replace-provider -auto-approve registry.terraform.io/-/ct registry.terraform.io/poseidon/ct && \
  terraform state replace-provider -auto-approve registry.terraform.io/-/template registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/template
  ```

6. Return to original directory and use kubeconfig generated by lokomotive:

  ```sh
  cd - && export KUBECONFIG=$ASSETS_DIR/cluster-assets/auth/kubeconfig
  ```

7. `FelixConfiguration` has been moved to calico charts. To avoid firewall blip, label and annotate it, so that it can be managed by Helm while updating:
  ```sh
  kubectl label FelixConfiguration default app.kubernetes.io/managed-by=Helm --overwrite=true && \
  kubectl annotate FelixConfiguration default meta.helm.sh/release-name=calico --overwrite=true && \
  kubectl annotate FelixConfiguration default meta.helm.sh/release-namespace=kube-system --overwrite=true
  ```

Finally, run the following:

```sh
lokoctl cluster apply --skip-components -v
```

> **NOTE:** On clusters with a single controller node only, delete the old `kube-apiserver` ReplicaSet during cluster update:

Author: If we do not delete it during update of api-server it keeps on crashing. So it needs to be deleted while update of api-server

> **NOTE:** On clusters with a single controller node only, delete the old `kube-apiserver` ReplicaSet during cluster update:

Author: Updated some more information

  ```sh

>   kubectl delete rs -n kube-system $(kubectl get rs -n kube-system -l k8s-app=kube-apiserver --no-headers=true --sort-by=metadata.creationTimestamp | tac | tail -n +2 | awk '{print $1}') || true

Reviewer: Yes, it is expected that update process will get interrupted (as we remove old pod and we must wait for new one).

>How does this work? This will only apply when there are two apiserver replicasets, right? In that case maybe it makes sense to make a loop so the user can run it while the cluster is updating?

During the upgrade, the new one should get created, but it will never converge. At this point, removing old one allows it to converge.

If there is just one for whatever reason, this comment just do not anything, so it's safe. It's also idempotent, just in case.

  ([#946](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/946)).
- Change labels and taints format from string to structured
  ([#1042](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1042)).
- prometheus-operator: Add external_url
  ([#964](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/964)).

#### Docs

- Concepts: add document for admission webhook
  ([#943](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/943)).
- Coding style guide
  ([#953](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/953)).
- MetalLB: Clarify address_pools knob
  ([#996](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/996)).
- How to guide on backing up and restoring rook-ceph volumes with Velero
  ([#1048](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1048)).

#### Bug fixes

- bootkube: feed output using local rather than local_file content
  ([#1021](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1021)).
- Dex: fix pod reload on config change
  ([#1040](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1040)).
- MetalLB: Add missing autodiscovery labels
  ([#990](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/990)).
- Gangway: add a ServiceAccount
  ([#1104](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1104)).

> - If there is more than one component installed in single namespace, `lokoctl` will now refuse to remove then namespace while running `lokoctl component --delete` with `--delete-namespace` flag ([#1093](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1093)).

Reviewer: Can we add some line breaks here to avoid long lines?

Author: Can you please give an example of line break here. Did you mean

```suggestion
- If there is more than one component installed in single namespace.

  `lokoctl` will now refuse to remove then namespace while running `lokoctl component --delete` with `--delete-namespace` flag ([#1093](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1093)).
```

Reviewer: Send sample patch outside GitHub.

  ([#1052](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1052)).
- Remove usage of template_file
  ([#1046](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1046)).
- test/*: de-duplicate value timeout and retryInterval
  ([#1049](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1049)).
- Packet: Read BGP peer address from metadata service
  ([#1010](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1010)).
- pkg/assets: cleanup exported API
  ([#936](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/936)).
- Cobra updated to v1.1.1
  ([#1082](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1082)),
  ([#1091](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1091)).
- cli/cmd: cleanups part 2
  ([#1015](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1015)).
- Add github actions
  ([#1074](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1074)).
- Makefile: use latest Go when building in Docker
  ([#1083](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1083)).
- cli/cmd: cleanups part 3
  ([#1018](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1018)).
- Add new CI config for Packet based FLUO testing
  ([#1110](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1110)).

### Updating from v0.4.1

#### Configuration syntax changes

> There have been some minor changes to the configurations of worker nodes. The data type of `labels` and `taints` has been changed from `string` to `map(string)` for the AWS and Packet platforms.

Reviewer: Can we add some line breaks here to avoid long lines?

##### Old:

```hcl
labels = "testing=true"

taints = "nodeType=storage:NoSchedule"
```

##### New:

```hcl
labels = {
  "testing" = "true"
}

taints = {
  "nodeType" = "storage:NoSchedule"
}
```

> This release also changes the default `cluster.oidc.client_id` value from `gangway` to `clusterauth`. This setting must match `gangway.client_id` and `dex.static_client.id`. If you use default settings for oidc you'll need to add `client_id = "gangway"` or change the `static_client.id` and `client_id` parameters for dex and gangway to `clusterauth` respectively.

Reviewer: Can we add some line breaks here to avoid long lines?

##### Old:

```hcl
packet {
  oidc {
    client_id = "gangway"
  }
}
```

##### New:

```hcl
packet {
  oidc {
    client_id = "clusterauth"
  }
}
```

#### Cluster update steps

> Ensure your cluster is in a healthy state by running `lokoctl cluster apply` using the`v0.4.1` version. Updating multiple versions at a time is not supported so, if your cluster is older, upgrade to `v0.4.1` and only then proceed with the upgrade to `v0.5.0`.

Reviewer: As Johannes suggested, we should consistently use "update/upgrade".

```suggestion
Ensure your cluster is in a healthy state by running `lokoctl cluster apply` using the`v0.4.1` version. Updating multiple versions at a time is not supported so, if your cluster is older, update to `v0.4.1` and only then proceed with the upgrade to `v0.5.0`.
```

> Ensure your cluster is in a healthy state by running `lokoctl cluster apply` using the`v0.4.1` version. Updating multiple versions at a time is not supported so, if your cluster is older, upgrade to `v0.4.1` and only then proceed with the upgrade to `v0.5.0`.

Reviewer: Can we add some line breaks here to avoid long lines?

> Due to [Terraform](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/824) and [Kubernetes](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1030) updates to v0.13+ and v1.19.3 respectively, some manual steps need to be performed when updating. In your cluster configuration directory, follow these steps:

Reviewer: Can we add some line breaks here to avoid long lines?

  $ASSETS_DIR/terraform-modules/dns/route53/require.tf
  ```

4. Go to the `terraform` directory:
  ```sh
  cd $ASSETS_DIR/terraform
  ```

5. Replace the old providers:
  ```sh
  terraform state replace-provider -auto-approve registry.terraform.io/-/ct registry.terraform.io/poseidon/ct && \
  terraform state replace-provider -auto-approve registry.terraform.io/-/template registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/template
  ```

6. Return to original directory and use kubeconfig generated by lokomotive:

  ```sh
  cd - && export KUBECONFIG=$ASSETS_DIR/cluster-assets/auth/kubeconfig
  ```

7. `FelixConfiguration` has been moved to calico charts. To avoid firewall interruption, label and annotate it so that it can be managed by Helm while updating:
  ```sh
  kubectl label FelixConfiguration default app.kubernetes.io/managed-by=Helm --overwrite=true && \
  kubectl annotate FelixConfiguration default meta.helm.sh/release-name=calico --overwrite=true && \
  kubectl annotate FelixConfiguration default meta.helm.sh/release-namespace=kube-system --overwrite=true
  ```

Finally, run the following:

```sh
lokoctl cluster apply --skip-components -v
```

> **NOTE:** On clusters with a single controller node only, delete the old `kube-apiserver` ReplicaSet during cluster update. It deletes old ReplicaSet which is replaced by new one during cluster update:

Reviewer: I'd mention here, then lokoctl prints that kube-apiserver is being updated, as running the command before doesn't really serve the purpose.

> **NOTE:** On clusters with a single controller node only, delete the old `kube-apiserver` ReplicaSet during cluster update. It deletes old ReplicaSet which is replaced by new one during cluster update. When lokoctl prints that `kube-apiserver` is being updated, run the following:

Reviewer: Can we add some line breaks here to avoid long lines?

  ```sh
  kubectl delete rs -n kube-system $(kubectl get rs -n kube-system -l k8s-app=kube-apiserver --no-headers=true --sort-by=metadata.creationTimestamp | tac | tail -n +2 | awk '{print $1}') || true
  ```

> **NOTE:** It is expected that update process may get interrupted, re apply the cluster in that case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** When this gets executed, upgrade process will get interrupted. Re-run `lokoctl cluster apply --skip-components -v` to proceed.
```

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** When this gets executed the upgrade process will get interrupted. Re-run `lokoctl cluster apply --skip-components -v` to proceed.
```

```sh
Node                     Ready    Reason          Message

lokomotive-controller-0  True     KubeletReady    kubelet is posting ready status
lokomotive-1-worker-0    True     KubeletReady    kubelet is posting ready status
lokomotive-1-worker-1    True     KubeletReady    kubelet is posting ready status
lokomotive-1-worker-2    True     KubeletReady    kubelet is posting ready status
Name      Status    Message              Error

etcd-0    True      {"health":"true"}
```

#### Updating native kubelets and etcd (optional)

- Manually update etcd following the steps mentioned in the doc
  [here](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/blob/v0.5.0/docs/how-to-guides/upgrade-etcd.md).
- Manually update the kubelet running on the nodes, by following the steps mentioned in the doc
  [here](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/blob/v0.5.0/docs/how-to-guides/upgrade-bootstrap-kubelet.md).

#### Updating cert-manager

Run the following command:

```sh
until lokoctl component render-manifest cert-manager | kubectl apply -f -; do sleep 1; done
```

Now it is safe to update:

```sh
lokoctl component apply cert-manager
```

#### Updating prometheus-operator

> Due to [a bug](https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/issues/1128), the valid seccomp profiles in the `prometheus-operator-admission` PodSecurityPolicy don't get updated automatically. Delete `psp prometheus-operator-admission` so it gets created with the right seccomp profiles:

Reviewer: Can we add some line breaks here to avoid long lines?
